Since this is a very quick and dirty alpha release, here are the steps you need to get it working. Note that the whole admin interface looks a little bit better in Firefox than IE (although still works nicely in both). In times past I would have spent hours trying to get it to look perfect in both, but IE7 is nearly out, promising to eliminate most crappy CSS bugs and until then, as long as its passable in IE, use Firefox to administer your website, damnit! ;) Oh also, I have no idea how well it works in Safari seeing as I don't have access to a Mac. If you find Safari/Opera/CrapBrowser problems and wanna help out, let me know.

 #1 Make sure ASP.Net 2.0 and SQL Server 2000 (or better) is installed. You'll need to go and set up a SQL Server database of course and organise login details so you can fill in the connection string for Sprocket so it knows how to connect to the database.

 #2 Sprocket requires its root folder to be a proper IIS website or virtual directory. It won't work in an unconfigured subdirectory. Just go into IIS and if you're running WinXP Pro, create a new virtual directory or website, and point it to wherever you extracted Sprocket to. Make sure you set up full permissions so that Sprocket can read and write files and folders. Don't turn on directory browsing because Sprocket requests usually refer to locations that don't actually physically exist.

 #3 An IIS wildcard mapping is required for ASP.Net requests. Basically, you must open up the website or virtual directory properties, click the "configuration" button and add a new mapping. For Windows Server 2003, you add a wildcard mapping, which has its own section at the bottom of the dialog box. IIS 6 (WinXP Pro) is the same, except you have to add it in the same place as all the other mappings. The file type is just ".*". Navigate to C:\WINDOWS\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v2.0.50727 (or wherever your 2.0 framework is installed) and select the aspnet_isapi.dll file to handle the request. Make sure the "check that file exists" checkbox is unchecked.

 #4 Modify the connection string in the Web.config file so that it points at your SQL Server database. Feel free to make any other changes that blow your skirt up.

 #5 Point your browser at http://[where-you-installed-sprocket]/$dbsetup in order for
basic stored procedures and whatnot to be created.

 #6 Next point your browser at your the admin folder of your Sprocket location (e.g. http://localhost/Sprocket/admin) and hey presto, you're away! Initially there's nothing configured for the root location of Sprocket so you'll get a 404. Point it at /admin. (Yes I know there's not actually an admin folder, but don't worry about that, Sprocket will pretend it's there) Oh I almost forgot. The default username is admin and the password is password.

Note: There's this whole nifty CMS page serving engine developed that I haven't even remotely finished documenting yet. Check out Documentation\Sprocket Page Content System.doc for more
information. We'll include a demo site in the source code soon.

Got questions? Email me at snowdevil@gmail.com.

Sorry about the sparsely commented code, it's a work in progress. I'll stick up a proper Sprocket website once I get the content handling module done. It would be weird to build a website about Sprocket and not actually use Sprocket to do it, wouldn't it?